HTTPS: What are the differences?

HTTPS is HTTP with encryption and verification. The only difference between the two protocols is
 that HTTPS uses TLS (SSL) to encrypt normal HTTP requests and responses, and to digitally sign those
 requests and responses. As a result, HTTPS is far more secure than HTTP. A website that uses HTTP has
 http:// in its URL, while a website that uses HTTPS has https://.

HTTPS: What are the differences?
HTTPS is HTTP with encryption and verification. The only difference between the two
 protocols is that HTTPS uses TLS (SSL) to encrypt normal HTTP requests and responses,
 and to digitally sign those requests and responses. As a result, HTTPS is fa
r more secure than HTTP. A website that uses HTTP has http:// in its URL, while 
a website that uses HTTPS has https://.

What is an HTTP request? What is an HTTP response?
HTTP requests are generated by a user's browser as 
user interacts with web properties. For example, if a user clicks on
 a hyperlink, the browser will send a series of "HTTP GET" requests f
or the content that appears on that page. If someone Googles "What is HTTP?"
 and this article shows up in the search results, when they click on the link, 
their browser will create and send a series of HTTP requests in order to get the
 information necessary to render the page.

These HTTP requests all go to either an origin server or a proxy caching server,
 and that server will generate an HTTP response. HTTP responses are answers to HTTP requests.



HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 30 Jan 2019 12:14:39 GMT
Server: Apache
Last-Modified: Mon, 28 Jan 2019 11:17:01 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Content-Length: 12
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Content-Type: text/plain

What is HTTPS?
The S in HTTPS stands for "secure." HTTPS uses TLS (or SSL) to encrypt
 HTTP requests and responses, so in the example above, instead of the text,
 an attacker would see a bunch of seemingly random characters.

Instead of:


GET /hello.txt HTTP/1.1
User-Agent: curl/7.63.0 libcurl/7.63.0 OpenSSL/1.1.l zlib/1.2.11
Host: www.example.com
Accept-Language: en
The attacker sees something like:

In HTTPS, how does TLS/SSL encrypt HTTP requests and responses?
TLS uses a technology called public key cryptography: there are two keys,
 a public key and a private key, and the public key is shared with client 
via the server's SSL certificate. When a client opens a connection with a server, the 
two devices use the public and private key to agree on new keys, called session 
to encrypt further communications between them.

All HTTP requests and responses are then encrypted with these session keys,
 so that anyone who intercepts communications can only see a random string of characters, not the plaintext.

For more on how encryption and keys work, see What is encryption?





